{\rtf1\ansi\deff3\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset2 Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f3\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Liberation Serif{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f4\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Liberation Sans{\*\falt Arial};}{\f5\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Liberation Sans{\*\falt Arial};}{\f6\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Mangal;}{\f7\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Liberation Serif{\*\falt Times New Roman};}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}
{\stylesheet{\s0\snext0\ql\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang2057\loch\f3\fs24\lang2057 Normal;}
{\s1\sbasedon15\snext1\ql\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\sb240\sa120\keepn\ltrpar\cf0\b\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang2057\loch\f4\fs36 Heading 1;}
{\s2\sbasedon15\snext2\ql\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\sb200\sa120\keepn\ltrpar\cf0\b\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang2057\loch\f4\fs32 Heading 2;}
{\s15\sbasedon0\snext16\ql\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\sb240\sa120\keepn\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang2057\loch\f5\fs28 Heading;}
{\s16\sbasedon0\snext16\sl276\slmult1\ql\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\sb0\sa140\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang2057\loch\f3\fs24 Text Body;}
{\s17\sbasedon16\snext17\sl276\slmult1\ql\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\sb0\sa140\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang2057\loch\f3\fs24 List;}
{\s18\sbasedon0\snext18\ql\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\sb120\sa120\ltrpar\cf0\i\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang2057\loch\f3\fs24 Caption;}
{\s19\sbasedon0\snext19\ql\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang2057\loch\f3\fs24 Index;}
{\s20\sbasedon15\snext20\qc\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\sb240\sa120\keepn\ltrpar\cf0\b\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang2057\loch\f5\fs56 Title;}
{\s21\sbasedon15\snext21\qc\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\sb60\sa120\keepn\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang2057\loch\f5\fs36 Subtitle;}
}{\*\generator LibreOffice/6.1.2.1$Windows_X86_64 LibreOffice_project/65905a128db06ba48db947242809d14d3f9a93fe}{\info{\creatim\yr0\mo0\dy0\hr0\min0}{\revtim\yr2019\mo4\dy6\hr17\min0}{\printim\yr0\mo0\dy0\hr0\min0}}{\*\userprops}\deftab709
\hyphauto0\viewscale120
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse451\pgwsxn11906\pghsxn16838\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default Style;}}
\formshade{\*\pgdscno0}\paperh16838\paperw11906\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\sectunlocked1\pgndec\pgwsxn11906\pghsxn16838\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
{\*\ftnsep\chftnsep}\pgndec\pard\plain \s20\qc\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\sb240\sa120\keepn\ltrpar\cf0\b\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang2057\loch\f5\fs56\sb240\sa120{\b\dbch\af6\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs56
G53DIA Assignment 2 Report}
\par \pard\plain \s21\qc\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\sb60\sa120\keepn\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang2057\loch\f5\fs36{\dbch\af6\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs36
Joel Cox psyjc5}
\par \pard\plain \s1\ql\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\sb240\sa120\keepn\ltrpar\cf0\b\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang2057\loch\f4\fs36{\listtext\pard\plain }\ilvl0\ls2 \li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0{\b\dbch\af6\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs36\loch\f5\hich\af5
Introduction}
\par \pard\plain \s16\sl276\slmult1\ql\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\sb0\sa140\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang2057\loch\f3\fs24\sl276\slmult1{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The agents used in this task use the same architecture as those in assignment 1 (report included), with one errata: The architecture is reactive with state, not deliberative as previously stated.}
\par \pard\plain \s16\sl276\slmult1\ql\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\sb0\sa140\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang2057\loch\f3\fs24\sl276\slmult1{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The task is similar to that of assignment 1, except that there are now multiple agents being used to achieve the same task. The goal is still to maximise score, however score is now total waste collected divided by the number of agents used. }
\par \pard\plain \s16\sl276\slmult1\ql\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\sb0\sa140\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang2057\loch\f3\fs24\sl276\slmult1{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The expected score for multiple agents is around 70-80% of the single agent runs. This is due to co-ordination overhead, as well as saturation of the environment with agents, which all try to accomplish the same task, lowering available tasks per agent.}
\par \pard\plain \s16\sl276\slmult1\ql\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\sb0\sa140\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang2057\loch\f3\fs24\sl276\slmult1{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
This report will focus less on maximising the score, as the agents are as near as optimal as can be  made within the task time-frame, and will instead look into how different approaches to the problem can affect the score.}
\par \pard\plain \s16\sl276\slmult1\ql\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\sb0\sa140\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang2057\loch\f3\fs24\sl276\slmult1\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par \pard\plain \s1\ql\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\sb240\sa120\keepn\ltrpar\cf0\b\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang2057\loch\f4\fs36{\listtext\pard\plain }\ilvl0\ls2 \li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0{\b\dbch\af6\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs36\loch\f5\hich\af5
Base Approach}
\par \pard\plain \s16\sl276\slmult1\ql\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\sb0\sa140\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang2057\loch\f3\fs24\sl276\slmult1{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Initially, the agents were imported directly from assignment 1. These agents had no way of knowing if another agent was heading for a specific task, and this was inefficient.}
\par \pard\plain \s16\sl276\slmult1\ql\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\sb0\sa140\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang2057\loch\f3\fs24\sl276\slmult1{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The basic approach to fix this was to implement a simple boolean on tasks, to identify if a tanker was heading to it. This resulted in the agents being very effective, operating at a very similar efficiency to a single agent environment. This means that any modifications to the task scheduling approach would provide meaningful information about how they affected the score.}
\par \pard\plain \s1\ql\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\sb240\sa120\keepn\ltrpar\cf0\b\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang2057\loch\f4\fs36{\listtext\pard\plain }\ilvl0\ls2 \li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0{\b\dbch\af6\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs36\loch\f5\hich\af5
Task }{\b\dbch\af6\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs36\loch\f5\hich\af5
S}{\b\dbch\af6\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs36\loch\f5\hich\af5
cheduling and Co-Ordination}
\par \pard\plain \s16\sl276\slmult1\ql\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\sb0\sa140\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang2057\loch\f3\fs24\sl276\slmult1{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
As previously mentioned, the basic task scheduling takes no complex data into account, operating on a first come, first served basis.}
\par \pard\plain \s2\ql\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\sb200\sa120\keepn\ltrpar\cf0\b\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang2057\loch\f4\fs32{\listtext\pard\plain }\ilvl0\ls2 \li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0{\b\dbch\af6\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs32\loch\f5\hich\af5
Contract Net Protocol}
\par \pard\plain \s16\sl276\slmult1\ql\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\sb0\sa140\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang2057\loch\f3\fs24\sl276\slmult1{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Contract net protocol is a widely used, simple task scheduling protocol. The implementation of it for the multi agent system has a small issue due to the sequential processing of the agents, increasing co-ordination overhead.}
\par \pard\plain \s2\ql\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\sb200\sa120\keepn\ltrpar\cf0\b\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang2057\loch\f4\fs32{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Dynamic Fleet Scaling}
\par \pard\plain \s16\sl276\slmult1\ql\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\sb0\sa140\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang2057\loch\f3\fs24{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Dynamic Fleet Scaling is based on the theory that the potential waste available to deliver is restricted by the amount of Fuel Pumps present in the environment. This idea stems from the fact that each tanker is restricted by fuel limits, and so cannot stray too far from a \u8220\'93safe\u8221\'94 area around fuel pumps. This limit is avoided, and multiple fuel pumps are exploited by adding an additional Tanker per fuel pump found in the environment.}
\par \pard\plain \s16\sl276\slmult1\ql\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\sb0\sa140\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang2057\loch\f3\fs24{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Tests from the single agent assignment indicated that a single fuel pump environment would result in a score of approximately 70k-90k; this is the target score which was aimed for, although a reduction was expected due to the cost of running multiple tankers.}
\par \pard\plain \s2\ql\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\sb200\sa120\keepn\ltrpar\cf0\b\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang2057\loch\f4\fs32{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Results}
\par \pard\plain \s16\sl276\slmult1\ql\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\sb0\sa140\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang2057\loch\f3\fs24{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The DFS approach used a single starting scout tanker, and an additional tanker for each additional fuel pump found. This means that a single fuel pump should only have due a single tanker \u8211\'96 the scout. However, as the assignment is about multiple agents, in the rare case of a single pump environment, an additional tanker will be added, giving a minimum of 2 tankers. Testing environments did not include a guaranteed single pump environment.}
\par \pard\plain \s16\sl276\slmult1\ql\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\sb0\sa140\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang2057\loch\f3\fs24{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Early tests of the DFS approach with Leash Tankers showed poor results; limiting the Tankers to a certain fuel pump stopped them from exploiting particularly rich areas of the environment, or \u8216\'91bouncing\u8217\'92 between two pumps with high task density.}
\par \pard\plain \s16\sl276\slmult1\ql\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\sb0\sa140\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang2057\loch\f3\fs24{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
A second version of DFS used Lonely Tankers instead, which proved to be very effective. An average score of 85k-105k was observed, with total waste delivered hitting over 1 000 000. This was surprising, as it indicated certain seeds supported using 10 tankers efficiently, without losing to much to the cost of excess tankers. For comparison, basic tests with the Base Approach using 4+ tankers had proved very inefficient, averaging around 60k, peaking at 80k. The high score range also exceeded the expected target range, showing that the cost of running multiple tankers is not actually that high if used sparingly. However, the co-ordination used for DFS was primitive, just using the Basic Approach, so there was minimal overhead costs.}
\par \pard\plain \s16\sl276\slmult1\ql\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\sb0\sa140\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang2057\loch\f3\fs24{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The lowest scores observed were about 55k-65k, which shows there are some seeds where this approach is not very efficient. Some of these environments were those that the single agent assignment had also struggled with, but others were ones where it had succeeded, indicating that there was occasionally a real cost.}
\par \pard\plain \s16\sl276\slmult1\ql\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\sb0\sa140\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang2057\loch\f3\fs24{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Also observed was the pattern that average score seemed to correlate slightly to tanker amount. Whilst previously thought that lower fleet sizes would put up better results, DFS showed results to the contrary, with the highest scores, 100k+, being between 4-10 tankers. The environments that supported 10 tankers would reliably show scores of 95k+.}
\par \pard\plain \s16\sl276\slmult1\ql\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\sb0\sa140\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang2057\loch\f3\fs24{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
In conclusion, DFS was considered a success, putting up scores that were impressive, albeit less than the Base Approach. Normally, total waste would not be heavily considered, but the fact that it can show total waste amounts of over 1 million, as well as putting up better scores with up to 10 tankers than the Base Approach could with more than 3 tankers, means it is a serious consideration for a final approach.}
\par \pard\plain \s16\sl276\slmult1\ql\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\sb0\sa140\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang2057\loch\f3\fs24{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
NOTE: Unfortunately the processing time for DFS was annoyingly slow, so testing was difficult. Further testing might have yielded stronger results, or revealed that the approach was actually unreliable.}
\par \pard\plain \s1\ql\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\sb240\sa120\keepn\ltrpar\cf0\b\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang2057\loch\f4\fs36{\listtext\pard\plain }\ilvl0\ls2 \li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0{\b\dbch\af6\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs36\loch\f5\hich\af5
Agent types}
\par \pard\plain \s16\sl276\slmult1\ql\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\sb0\sa140\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang2057\loch\f3\fs24\sl276\slmult1{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Another approach to the problem is to change what agents exhibit which behaviours. }
\par \pard\plain \s2\ql\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\sb200\sa120\keepn\ltrpar\cf0\b\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang2057\loch\f4\fs32{\listtext\pard\plain }\ilvl0\ls2 \li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0{\b\dbch\af6\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs32\loch\f5\hich\af5
Efficient Tanker}
\par \pard\plain \s16\sl276\slmult1\ql\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\sb0\sa140\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang2057\loch\f3\fs24\sl276\slmult1{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The Efficient Tanker agent is an adaptation of the single agent from assignment 1. It uses a reactive with state \u8220\'93decision\u8221\'94 methodology to choose which nearby task is best.}
\par \pard\plain \s2\ql\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\sb200\sa120\keepn\ltrpar\cf0\b\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang2057\loch\f4\fs32{\listtext\pard\plain }\ilvl0\ls2 \li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0{\b\dbch\af6\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs32\loch\f5\hich\af5
Scout Tanker}
\par \pard\plain \s16\sl276\slmult1\ql\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\sb0\sa140\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang2057\loch\f3\fs24\sl276\slmult1{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The Scout Tanker agent is very similar to the Efficient Tanker. It starts differently, exploring for a longer period of time than the Efficient Tanker, before reverting to the same behaviour. The explore time is limited, as after a certain point it is likely to have explored as far as possible, and would be better off completing tasks. }
\par \pard\plain \s16\sl276\slmult1\ql\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\sb0\sa140\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang2057\loch\f3\fs24\sl276\slmult1{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Certain environments would allow for limitless exploration, but even then, the other agents may have a difficult time exploiting the explored area efficiently, and the Scout Tanker needs to justify the penalty for additional agents, so it switches to completing tasks.}
\par \pard\plain \s2\ql\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\sb200\sa120\keepn\ltrpar\cf0\b\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang2057\loch\f4\fs32{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Lonely Tanker}
\par \pard\plain \s16\sl276\slmult1\ql\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\sb0\sa140\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang2057\loch\f3\fs24{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The Lonely Tanker (and Lonely Scout Tanker) operate near identically to their base counterparts, with the exception of the getBestTask function. These tankers use a weighted bias to try to prioritise tasks that are further away from other tankers.}
\par \pard\plain \s16\sl276\slmult1\ql\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\sb0\sa140\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang2057\loch\f3\fs24{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Interestingly, whilst the Efficient Tanker and Scout Tanker result in different scores when used exclusively, the Lonely Tanker and Lonely Scout Tanker give the same results, despite the Lonely Scout not performing tasks for the first 1500 steps.}
\par \pard\plain \s2\ql\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\sb200\sa120\keepn\ltrpar\cf0\b\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang2057\loch\f4\fs32{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Lonely Scout Recruit Tanker}
\par \pard\plain \s16\sl276\slmult1\ql\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\sb0\sa140\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang2057\loch\f3\fs24{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Based upon the Lonely Scout Tanker, the Recruit Tanker adds an extra Lonely Tanker to the Fleet every time it finds a new Fuel Pump before 1500 steps, up to a maximum of 10 tankers. After 1500 steps, it resumes regular task execution.}
\par \pard\plain \s2\ql\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\sb200\sa120\keepn\ltrpar\cf0\b\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang2057\loch\f4\fs32{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Leash Tanker}
\par \pard\plain \s16\sl276\slmult1\ql\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\sb0\sa140\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\dbch\af6\langfe1081\dbch\af7\afs24\alang2057\loch\f3\fs24\sb0\sa140{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The Leash tanker simply sticks with the same designated fuel pump. Designed with the Dynamic Fleet Scaling in mind, it performed worse than a basic Lonely Tanker and was replaced as such.}
\par }